Elend Denthor is the youngest of the long lineage of Denthors, an once wealthy family who once supplied the sea traders with knowledge, supplies and navigators. The entire family was included in the family business, often trained from birth to learn the ways of the sea and magics important with ensuring safe passage of their vessels through storms, rock hits, and protection from the strange monsters playing the deeper passages. As such, wizards of the Denthor Trading Company specialized in both Conjuration and Divination, allowing them to summon cohorts of aquatic monsters to protect seagoing ships from men and monsters alike and foresee dangerous encounters and do their best to prepare ships and crews to survive storms that would have ruined less prepared ships. Additionally, being a family of elves, Denthors made use of their long lives to become some of the most accomplished navigators, puting enough years behind the mast to memorize long and treacherous passageways, become accomplished and precise in taking measurements against astral objects and doing the complicated mathematics required to accurately plot their position even in inclement weather. One tail (no doubt spread and nurtured by the DTC themselves) talks of how one particularly accomplished Denthor navigator (whose name always seems to be different, evidently half of the denthors have accomplished this feat) was able to successfully ensure the successful midnight run of a shipment of medicine directly across the ocean from the southernmost Sea-elf city state to a small coastal town in the eastmost barony, through a thick fog, relying only upon his intuition, a compass, and a hand-sketched map depicting the town delivered by messenger. 
Elend was born into this near mythic family just under 50 years before the Fall. He lived a life of luxury as the son of one of the most powerful families in [CONTINENT NAME], and was slated to start his magical training to become the next in a generation of mythic seamen when the Fall happened. As a family of nearly exclusive magic users, they were disproportionately affected by the fall. Young Elend was spared however, and as the last living member of the Denthor Trading Company inherited great wealth and responsibility for the family business.
That did not last long, however, as he lacked any sort of magical knowledge and possessed less than imposing physical strength. In the years after the fall, without the extended families protection, knowledge, and experience the DTC's outposts and remaining ships were quickly ransacked by wandering groups of marauders, common folk, and other businesses hoping to keep themselves afloat in the chaos. In the end, Elend was able to save only a small collection of his families extensive libraries and wealth, and ousted from house and home, set off on the roads of [Continent name], studying the ways of magic from the journals and spellbooks he was able to hold on to and making a living for himself by traveling from port to port helping where he could onboard ships on and off the water, devoting the minimal amount of time possible to his daily work so he could maximise time spent studying the arcane. 
Now, 47 years after the fall, he finds himself a young adult elf, confident in his wizarding ways and looking for a way to regain a fortune and make his way to shipping baron once again, and regain his families way of life.

TL;DR:
	Elf family does loads of shipping with magic assistance and make fortunes, youngest elf in family is not yet magical. Fall happens, everyone in family except young elf dies, young elf loses everything and wants to rebuild shipping empire.

